>> A new message for
extraterrestrials,
sending a cosmic hello to any
intelligent life in space.
How and what to say to
start the conversation
with our galactic neighbors?
This is a "Gaia News Breakdown,"
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When we make contact
with extraterrestrials,
how will we
communicate with them?
What if we sent them a
message showing information
about Earth, humanity, and our
technological capabilities?
That was the idea
behind the Arecibo
message in 1974 designed by
Frank Drake and Carl Sagan.
The now famous message was
the most powerful broadcast
sent into space from the Arecibo
Radio Telescope in Puerto Rico.
The binary message contained
a series of ones and zeros.
This graphic of
the message shows
it consists of our solar system,
strands of DNA, a human figure,
and chemicals related to
Earth among other things.
Now, nearly 50 years later,
an international team
of researchers
introduced a new message
intended for extraterrestrials.
The team led by Jonathan
Jiang of NASA's Jet Propulsion
Laboratory felt it was
time to update the Arecibo
message since we have come so
far technologically since 1974.
The proposed message, dubbed
The Beacon in the Galaxy,
will include some similar
information as Arecibo,
including, quote, "basic
mathematical and physical
concepts to establish
a universal means
of communication
followed by information
on the biochemical
composition of life on Earth."
And it continues, "The message
concludes with digitized images
of the human form, along with
an invitation for any receiving
intelligences to respond."
But how will they transmit
the message into space?
The Arecibo Radio Telescope
collapsed in December of 2020.
The researchers proposed using
the Chinese Five-hundred-meter
Aperture Spherical radio
Telescope, also known
as the FAST Telescope.
The FAST Telescope is
larger than Arecibo,
and its performance
and sensitivity
are higher than any other
radio telescope in existence.
Also the SETI Institute's Allen
Telescope Array in California
could be used.
But the main problem with both
of these telescopes is that
they are receive-only and
cannot yet transmit messages.
The research team
argues both satellites
could be upgraded to send
messages with new cutting edge
technology.
Writing, quote, "If so profound
a goal as communication
with alien civilizations is to
be realized the powerful tools
of FAST and ATA must be paired
with an equally well designed
and constructed
message to transmit."
This thinking is in line
with many experts in space
and the search for
extraterrestrial life,
including Harvard
professor, Avi Loeb,
who when talking about the
concept of intelligent life
in the universe and how
we should look for it
had this to say.
>> AVI LOEB: Well, the most
important thing for us is
to recognize the possibility
that we are not alone and that
we might not be the
smartest kid on the block.
And what that means is that
you have to keep your eyes open
rather than assume that
we are unique and special
and there is nothing out there.
It's like closing
yourself off at your home
and not looking
through the window.
And if you don't do
that, you would never
recognize that you
have neighbors.
That will not make
the neighbors go away.
Just like the fact
that philosophers
didn't look through the
telescope of Galileo
didn't make the sun
go around the Earth.
They didn't look, they
remained ignorant,
and the Earth continues
to move around the sun.
Reality doesn't care
whether we ignore it or not.
>> There is no timeline yet for
when The Beacon in the Galaxy
could be transmitted.
But as research team
lead, Jonathan Jiang,
told Scientific American,
"This is an invitation
to all people on Earth to
participate in a discussion
about sending out this message.
We hope, by
publishing this paper,
we can encourage people
to think about this."
For a new perspective, this
is a "Gaia News Breakdown."